[Music]
What are you gentlemen drinking?
Smooth. This is a dry cider from Threadbear.
It's a little cider place and metery.
It's the Wigull Whiskey. It's their cider house. It's fucking delicious.
It is. It's really dry.
Have you partaken in any mead?
No. Oh wait, that's not true.
They have flights, like cider flights.
I think one of them had mead once. I'm not a huge fan of mead.
I want to because it's very D&D.
It's a drink from the fantasy realm.
Exactly. That's why I wanted to like it and then I just couldn't get into it.
But they have it and I assume it's good because this is fucking delicious.
It's very dry, almost like champagne.
Oh, is that the same stuff you brought to the beach?
Yeah, it's that same cider.
It's not delicious.
It's not very sugary.
No, it's not sweet at all.
Yeah. Which is what I'm into.
I remember you brought that whole case and I was like, "Oh, yeah, I like cider ale.
I'll give this a shot." And I took a sip and I was like, "Yeah."
You would say.
No, that stuff is, like you say dry, but has like bone dry.
It's not dry. It's not refreshing.
No, not at all.
You're like more thirsty after a sip.
Yeah, don't drink this if you're playing volleyball on the beach.
It's like the anti-cores late.
But I fucking love it.
So yeah, I got a bunch of this.
And yeah, that's what we're drinking now.
What are you drinking, Greg?
Water.
Life water.
You're drinking some salt too.
What kind of salt are you?
Spin drift.
Spin drift is good.
A real squeezed fruit.
Yep, that's it.
I mean, it actually has a raspberry lime.
And calories.
Yeah.
Because that is actual juice in it.
Yeah, that's the amount of fan.
I like the lemon one.
It's probably my favorite.
I really dig it.
I haven't tried it.
It's pretty good.
I get it at Panera Bread.
Hey, man.
I like my Panera.
Hey.
Sometimes you need an overpriced grilled cheese, you know?
I swear the prices went up, but it's just me.
Like $14 fucking dollars.
Are you a member of the bread club?
No.
Well, maybe you should join.
Do you see, is it saving money?
I haven't joined.
But they always look at me like I'm an asshole every time I'm there and I'm like, no.
I'm like, oh, are you interested?
No.
Okay.
Don't get a free apple every fucking month or something.
And original content online.
Yeah, sometimes I want like a $10 grilled cheese, you know?
I'm going to dip in my $8 cup of soup.
[laughter]
And feel like I'm being healthy for my lunch break.
It's probably worse for you than like Taco Bell.
[laughter]
Oh, it'll come up.
Yeah, I'm kidding.
This only has 3,000 calories in the soup.
You saw the meme with the mac and cheese, right?
Mm-hmm.
But the boy, yeah, it's winning.
It's just in a packet and the dude empties it into a thing and they act like it's scandal.
But you're like, yeah, that's kind of what I expected.
I don't think anyone's back there like, oh, shaving cheddar.
Right, right.
Yeah, it's a fast food chain.
This isn't artisanal at all.
No.
[laughter]
Their broccoli cheddar is not vegetarian.
What?
Yeah.
Chicken stock.
No, there's dicks.
This woman, and I...
much respect her for doing this, I asked.
I was like, is your broccoli cheddar, or I'm sorry, your broccoli potato or whatever it
is, cheddar broccoli, I don't remember what the fuck it is.
It's one of those two.
One of those things, yeah.
It looked vegetarian on the menu, but it didn't have the V next to it.
So I was like, is that vegetarian?
She's like, I don't think so.
It doesn't have the V. I said, right, that was my concern.
I said, just curious, why isn't it vegetarian?
And so she like asked these other two people near her.
She asked her manager, nobody knew.
So she comes back with this fucking binder.
It is a giant book of everything that they serve in the entire ingredients list for it.
So there's a line gathering behind me now.
And I'm just like, oh my god, lady.
It wasn't just...
I'll take your word for it.
It's not vegetarian, but she's flipping, flipping, flipping through the book.
And oh, here it is.
And then she's scrolling down through the ingredients.
Chicken stock.
I'm like, that'll do it.
I guess that's why I said vegetarian.
Thanks.
It was just like, holy shit, it turned into like this giant like 10 minute ordeal.
Dude, it's fucking amazing to go through that much effort to not sell you something.
Yeah.
That's fucking amazing.
I'm like, I'm already not gonna buy it because I'm gonna err on this side of caution here.
And I don't want to get diarrhea for, you know, the rest of my days.
But no, she went the extra mile.
For no money.
No, I gave her a tip.
Oh, that's nice.
Was it like the Necronomicon like, bounding human flesh?
Could have been...
It was like a tome of just page after page.
Yeah, just the first time I've ever opened this.
The other employees didn't know it existed.
We'll get the good book.
Alter boys, bring it out.
Got candles and incense swinging.
Sorry, we've got a closest Panera for the next three hours.
This ritual takes quite a while.
People wanted us to talk about our setups.
I don't know if we want to do that or not.
We could always do it another time.
Yeah, I feel like mine's always in flux.
It's kind of hard for me to discuss what exactly is going on.
That's pretty stable now too, I think yours is too.
Yeah, I'm pretty happy with what I have and I don't think it's gonna change for a while
unless something comes out and is like, makes me change my mind or replaces something that I already have.
But no, I like what I have.
I'm super fucking stoked on my modulate lately.
It is definitely the most satisfying that it's ever been.
I don't know.
It's like 13 modules and I love it more than anything I've ever had.
Well, it sounds like you are.
That's a good segue for you to just describe what's going on.
Yeah, I've got two things lately.
The Bug brand crossover filter, which I really fucking like.
And the Pittsburgh Voltage Lab, which I'm surprisingly happy with.
I'll go into that.
I'll start with the crossover filter, which I didn't really fully understand until I got it.
Because the cool thing about that, it's like a dual filter with resonance.
And the Bug brand filter sound really fucking good to me.
They're like nice and liquidy.
I don't know.
There's something about it that I really like.
You can get acidy stuff that the DRM 2 really kind of highlighted for me.
Because that thing is an acid box as well as a percussion box really.
Kind of secretively in a way.
But the crossover filter has three band outs.
That's the whole thing.
He was like, oh yeah, people make like stereo crossover setups for like subwoofers and car
stuff.
He's like, why don't I play with that?
Like that's cool.
I can think of processing ideas like taking the low and the mids and the high out.
The coolest thing about it, I didn't realize this is another jack that's the mix out to
the right of it that sums all of those.
And then when you take the levels for each of those bands, so you can basically have a
filter sweep.
But as it goes into the mids, it's much louder.
Or you can just negate all the lows altogether or boost the highs.
So you can get these like really like fucking bulbous, I guess, in a way like sweep through
the filter.
And it's like lots of lows, some mids and a little highs or like the opposite.
And you can CV that like the cutoff responses to it.
And it's just, it's really super interesting to me.
I'll go off the way it sounds.
I immediately sold my twin peak filter from Epoch Modular, the Rob Horneike filter, which
I liked, but has always been kind of a kind of weird configuration to use the way like
you cross fade both the signals and it's got like, it's just kind of awkward to do it.
And you can get to some dead spots.
And he kind of even referenced that filter.
And it's like, oh, you can't really like this is a little more easy to play.
And it is.
And it's got two huge like filter knobs.
Do you have control over the bands themselves?
Do you have like the Q value?
Good question.
You don't right now, but he has a passive expander that's coming out that's kind of small.
It'll be pretty inexpensive.
And in that case, you just have two separate stereo filters.
And then you have separate voltage control over the cutoff and the resonance for each
one and then patchable outputs for each one.
So you can take the stereo processing even further because right now it kind of sums
it to a mono signal, even though you've got two filters and you there's like a parallel
and serial switch kind of like an access virus if you've used that.
So it's like really flexible, super easy to use.
And I definitely really dig it.
Does it have any like saturation capabilities?
Yes.
It does have some built in his the way his standalone boxes work.
There's always a drive on the input and that thing can get really nice.
Now the DRM 2 has saturation types on the output.
It's like folding and saturation.
And that's cool.
You would have put that on the Cut-Off tube, but it would have just been a bigger different
module.
But yeah, it can get nice and nasty or really clean.
When I had the PT delay for a while, I overdrew the hell out of that input a lot.
Sounded really good.
Yeah.
So again, another very satisfying bug brand purchase, Tom Bugs fucking kills it for sure.
And this has like CV.
Yeah.
Okay.
Right now you get just CV over each cut off for each filter, but that expander will give
you the resonance too.
So it's just four inputs.
It's not well, two right now, then another two, but it's definitely enough.
And just sound quality super pleasing to me too.
Nice and rubbery kind of filtering.
It's like no on board modulation, right?
No, nope, you got a so I have it hooked up to the DRM 2 and then I have that converter
box.
So I've been sending it voltage from the voltage lab, those slope generators on there, which
I like and just the DRM 2 envelopes.
And then Zadar of course, because Zadar is always fucking with everybody.
It's like that bully that's like, I'm going to fuck you up, man.
I'm going to fuck your voltage inputs up.
No, that thing, you know, again, we've spoken about that ad nauseam, but it never gets
old.
I love the Zadar, been especially digging the LFO modes on it lately, which I think we
talked about last time, but it's still true.
Yeah.
It sounds almost what I've been looking for in a filter bank lately.
You know what I mean?
If he would just blow that out a little bit more, offer like some on board, like envelope
followers and like...
That would be nice.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And maybe a saturation on the output or like a sub-divider circuit or something like that,
where you could just kind of turn it into not just a filter, but like a all-in-one self-modulating
mangeller unit.
It's weird because he's been releasing the blue modules and he's been really quiet about
it because he's just trying to serve the people that are trying to build those frames.
So it's like kind of even hidden on the site, he never announces it like the red one.
So the intent is kind of that you would get these things and then like, "Oh yeah, you
want like dual shift register?
I've got that module now."
Or like envelope...
I don't think he has an envelope follower, but he's kind of trickling that stuff out.
I'm not trying to get into the blue modules because it's just...
It's even harder to get than LZX stuff or like some other boutique stuff where it's just
like, "You're not.
Good luck.
It's hard enough to get the red ones."
But I think it's one of those things where he'll work with you.
Like I know I'm going to get one of the frames like the cases he makes for the module, but
just to put...
I want two different configurations of all the red shit I have.
I want the DRM 2 and the crossover filter and one of the PEQ filters in a box and then
another the compressor.
Oh, that's right.
Actually I want the compressor and two PEQs and then the bug brand filter, the expander
and the DRM 2.
Like two separate little portable mini skits.
That'll be pretty sweet.
Nice.
Wow.
Yeah.
Like one stereo processing and one just kind of like all his sound generation stuff that
I have.
That sounds like fun.
Yeah.
It is.
It's really enjoyable stuff to use.
It's never cramped.
I like banana jacks.
I didn't realize the other day.
Like they don't click when you insert them.
There's never like, you know in your own like Jack and it'll make a click with banana.
It's real subtle.
You can actually just kind of sit it there on top of it and modulate like touch it and
be like, "Oh, do I like that modulation?"
Yeah.
Put it in.
A lot of the circuit bent stuff I've owned over the years has all been banana.
Like the BPMC mixer that was all banana jack.
The circuit bent Kawai drum machine I had that was all banana jack too.
I forgot about that.
I missed that thing a lot.
Yeah.
I had that thing and I had the circuit bent radio shack reverb.
Oh, that's great.
And that was like a powerful combo and I missed it.
I auctioned them off as like kickstarter rewards back in the day when we were doing the fundraiser
for the Prometheus album Displacement Disorder.
And I've kind of been kicking myself in the ass for doing that ever since.
I was like, "Yeah, this will be a great reward."
And it was like people enjoyed it and I'm like, "Fuck."
Why did I give it away?
Well, you know who has it.
I, yeah.
I mean, I could look them up.
Take a little trip.
Yeah.
And smash the window.
Hopefully they're a fan of this podcast.
I'm listening right now.
And the dude that did those bends doesn't even exist anymore.
I forget who it was.
It was like alien tech or something like that.
Or alien devices.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
He doesn't even bend things anymore.
But that was some like top notch stuff, man.
Like, especially that radio shack verb.
Like that was probably one of the best distortion boxes I ever had.
Like that thing would just get so nasty.
Did he ever put out the schematics of his bends?
I don't think so.
Because it'd be cool to just be able to make your own.
Yeah.
But it was a very specific model.
Oh, man.
It was the metal version and it had like, it was like a really nice case.
Yeah, that's what I had.
You had one of those things.
Yeah, yeah.
I didn't have a bent.
It was only a high head intended to bend.
I was like, "Uh, I don't want to fuck this up."
Because whenever I was bending stuff, it was always like, "Well, I could fuck this up,
so I'm going to go get a $5 toy and start from there."
But this was like, I was getting use out of it.
I haven't been able, I was tempted to try and do my own bends with one of those, but
I can't find one of those anymore.
The only ones I find are like the really cheap plastic ones.
Yeah.
Those are kind of ass.
They were never that good to begin with.
No, and they don't sound good, even just out of the box.
Right.
I don't know what the difference is between the two, but there's definitely something
more than just the box.
Like there's some different circuitry going on in the metal ones.
Yeah, the dude even said it when I bought it.
You know, this is a rare version of this.
You know, he said he blew it out with like every bend possible.
He's like, "You really want to hold on to this?
Don't just give it a say."
Yeah, this is priceless.
Yeah.
One of a kind of advice.
Cool, cool.
I'm listening, man.
You know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to give this away.
I just hope it's in a good home.
That's all I can say.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah, banana jacks.
That's what I had to do, if I recall.
What doesn't have banana jacks is the voltage research lab, which I won't go super in-depth
too, if you want to know what it does and see the specs you can search it online.
But I'll highlight on some of the things I like.
Also, you're not going to get one.
Oh, good.
I was going to say one place to start might be talk about your expectations first.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So I went there one day to Pittsburgh Modular and played around with it because I looked
at it and was like, "Okay, this looks interesting to me.
You know, it's got this oscillator that I don't quite understand.
It's all Michael Johnson design, basically.
Richard helped with the design, but it's Michael's circuits.
It's his beast, basically.
And I played with it there and I was getting some sounds that I didn't expect.
And I was like, "Oh, that oscillator.
I could see using this for some music."
It wasn't.
They had their microvolt and I was not a fan of that when I used it personally.
There's nothing wrong with it.
It just didn't sound like what I wanted it to sound like.
I didn't like the design.
And they had that big life-forms voice.
Oh, yeah.
And I feel like that was another one that I saw that.
I was like, "This is cool."
And I was like, "There's nothing really distinct or unique about it."
Right.
So I went there to use it and I was kind of into it.
And I realized I wasn't as into the touch keyboard because it's like a two, if not three-part
thing.
There's the case, the module, the touch keyboard, and then there's the output module you get
for free.
And I was like, "Okay.
I don't really want the case.
The touch keyboard isn't my thing."
And they kind of modeled it after a Bucula music easel.
They're like, "We're going to make an affordable version of this with our own stuff."
And I'm like, "Cool, cool."
So we got the module.
There's Kickstarter.
All the panels got messed up.
They had to get it redone, delayed it by almost a month or something and some change.
So that sucked for them.
But I got it and realized very quickly it's all about the dual oscillator on there.
So the whole secret sauce is that Michael Johnson came up with a way to quote-unquote
"wavefold" high harmonic signals without making it sound like shit with just pure noise.
So you found a way to kind of zoom in on the waveform for what I remember him and Richard
saying and fold that stuff.
So it's got multiple stages.
There's a lot of circuitry.
It takes like 450 milliamps of power.
It's a really shit.
It's an absolute piece.
And it's entirely analog?
Yeah.
It's all analog.
One thing I really like about it too is that it's not normal at all.
You have to patch everything on it, which is cool because it's like, "Oh, I've just added
like two slope generators, two filters and this dual oscillator that I can -- if I'm
not using it in the patch, I can use it for other stuff," which is cool instead of something
that's like, "Oh yeah, that envelope's triggering because it's getting a gimbal."
It's all about the dual oscillator in short and that wave folding stuff.
I've been getting sounds out of it that I just can't explain and haven't been able
to expect.
And that's where the magic is in my opinion.
The filters you can buy as a module.
Okay.
It's -- I live the same as the other Michael Johnson design filter that impulse filter
where he did.
He simulated a low-pass gate without back trolls.
And it's cool.
It sounds good, but it's -- the dual oscillator is just kind of the magic to me.
The slope generators are cool.
It amazingly has blue LEDs that don't make me want to throw it off a cliff.
It is.
That's the first thing.
You know me.
Like I've talked about this before in my blue LED thing, but these don't bug me.
And I like that it's black.
It's not the beige kind of style that they were doing, which never -- it's a dark module.
And I'm just impressed with how much I've been enjoying it.
And using the MIDI interface because I just take my MIDI box to the hair mod module now
to that.
And it's -- you can do all sorts of shit with it.
So.
Now if they ever just released the oscillator part, do you think that would be worth it?
Oh, I think they should.
Okay.
Yeah.
Because they've got a number of oscillators, even analog oscillators over the years.
And they had that complex one because I remember it had the very strange blade.
Oh, the double helix.
Yeah.
Because I don't know if I really want to get all that other stuff necessarily.
I think about that often when I use it, I'm like, oh, they claim that they're probably
not going to make anymore.
It was a Kickstarter they made what they made.
It was successful.
They made, you know, it completed it.
And they're like, I don't know if we're going to keep making these.
But I think they should do the dual oscillator.
I think it's worth it.
I think it's kind of just some Michael Johnson brilliance in there for sure.
Yeah.
It just sounds great period outside of that.
You know, I don't really give a fuck who made it in a way.
But I would like the sounds from it.
I don't see myself getting rid of it.
Yeah.
I think I got a little disheartened after the microvolt.
And I was kind of like, not to write them off entirely, but I was just like, oh, yeah.
So it's kind of cool that they're still coming up with interesting ways to make that happen.
That's what I thought too.
I didn't really expect to get much more analog stuff at all.
But those two, the filter in that module, I'm definitely psyched on for sure.
And I've got more wave table stuff than anyone should have at this point.
Which I'm not mad at.
I've been clearing space to make room for more of that.
Oh, anything particular that you got your eye?
Yeah, yeah.
The hydrosense.
Oh, oh, wait, clearance space like on your desk.
Yep.
That's what that big hole there is for.
See, I thought you meant clearance space in your rack.
I'm for, yeah, I'm kind of welcoming, not needing to clear up space in my modular for
something for once.
You know what I mean?
I was like, you know what?
I can have all this outside of my rig finally.
You've got all this table space now.
You can fucking use it.
Spread out.
I'm not used to it.
So I haven't spread out yet.
Right, right.
You're all cramped up.
Yeah.
Spread your wings and fly, Greg.
Can you get that thing yet?
No.
And it got delayed.
Could you have gone at knob gone?
No.
Okay.
Because it seemed like the one I was using and playing with was ready to go.
If you can work.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It was, and it was like, and it was not like prototype case.
It was like people have them.
Oh, like review models and shit.
Yeah.
Supposedly.
And like there was a lot of people on the forums kind of upset about this because like
a lot of people got some who did, I guess to do like demos or presets, whatever, like
like Nick at Sonic State.
For example, he had one months ago, did a full on review.
And like at the time when people were doing these initial reviews, they were saying it
was supposed to be out like now.
Like I think early November was like the tentative deadline.
Then they shipped it or then they bumped it up to late December.
Now people are saying that they don't think they're even going to get it before the turn
of the year.
Yeah.
Is there any I've not been following it have the manufacturers been talking about what
the delay is or what's going on?
There was a lot of speculation on the forums that I've been seeing, but I didn't see anything
like official.
It's a little weird to be that quiet, especially when you're like a small new.
Yeah.
Company.
I know Daniel Troberg of Electron left Electron took Haidis and then became the VP of the
Hydrocinthe Company.
Oh yeah.
So he kind of runs engineering at least or something like that.
Have they done anything previously?
They're called like AMS, right?
Yeah, I don't think they've done anything else.
The name here is.
Yeah, I'm sorry, ASM.
ASM.
I think it's a Chinese company making its first year or something like that.
Interesting.
I mean, it definitely has my attention.
Like I kind of stuck my nose up at it at knob con.
You know what I mean?
Like it was right across from like the Waldorf booth.
And I was like, "Wow, who are these amateurs?"
I did not.
I walked over and played with it.
It was fucking astounding.
Yeah, it sounded good.
It sounded good.
And it was also like, I started playing with it and I groced it in a couple of seconds.
I genuinely thought they were first sale there.
I left with the idea of looking at it up later.
Yeah, I think a lot of people have had the same impression over the last few months.
Like the way they've been promoting it and the date that was out there and the fact
that people had some of the review, a lot of people bought them thinking they would be
out in a month.
Yeah.
And so far it's been months now.
And possibly a few more.
Some little bum to buy that.
I think it might be something worth waiting for.
Yeah.
Just from the experience I had and then seeing other videos of it.
If they put it together well and basically stick to the design that they had in September.
Fuck yeah, there's a ton of good stuff in it.
Is there on?
799 for the desktop.
Oh shit.
Yeah, that's not bad.
Less than half the price of like a TI virus or a Waldorf chira.
Wow.
I already thought it sounds very comparable.
I would guess like 1400 bucks or something.
Yeah.
The keyboard version I think is 1200 which is still cheaper than your average virus,
you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Things like that.
But the Jupiter XM is like 1500 bucks.
Wow.
Yeah.
It has keypads.
Like all the pads that are in front of it.
I think it has 28 pads or something.
2824 or something like that.
And you can put it in keyboard mode and sequence that way.
You know, that's pretty cool.
Yeah.
That was one of the main selling points for me.
Plus I saw it has CV inputs and all that jazz.
I'm like, okay, I can definitely integrate this with the modular.
You know what I mean?
It's just going to be like an external giant wave table oscillator for me.
You know, and it's got like each part is three oscillators, which is pretty cool.
And each oscillator has 219 waveforms.
And then there's five ADSR envelopes.
Damn.
Yeah, there's shit.
There's all kinds of effects.
Four different reverbs, five different delays.
Chorus, flanger, rotary, phaser, lo-fi, tremolo, EQ and compressor.
I mean, it sounds like they kind of went for the virus.
Virus those five-
Exactly.
All those effects.
Yeah.
They're like, access isn't going to do it.
They might as well.
And probably it's going to work, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, every demo that I've listened to so far sounds great.
You know, like criticism I've been seeing really is that it's an unknown company for
the most part.
And a lot of people are saying it's just a VST and a box, but it's like, it's sows the
virus.
You know what I mean?
So is most Waldorf stuff.
Yeah, as long as it sounds good, it doesn't really mean anything.
You know, it's like, and I don't want to be in the box.
So having something outside of the computer that can function like something in the computer
isn't a downside to me.
You know what I mean?
Somebody made mention the other day and this is related that the Waldorf quantum, like,
do you think that's more than just an iPad in there?
Right.
Because it is like, it's a touch screen.
It's not an iPad.
Sure.
Like, maybe that's all it is.
It's a fucking VST in a box.
What a touch screen.
But I mean, interface is important.
I don't know.
I prefer to have everything laid out, you know, and it doesn't look that menu-divey.
The decibels.
No, like, yeah.
No, it was not at all.
I mean, there was a couple of things that like you would dive, but it was maybe one
or two deep.
Yeah, I thought the Cairo's slower to get started when I was demoing it than the Hydro
Santa, where it was like, "Oh shit, there it is."
Yeah.
And on the opposite end, the more Cairo samples and videos, I hear the last time into it.
Really?
I've never seen it since.
It has less polyphony than like the Cairo and the virus, but it has more than I need.
You know what I mean?
It's like eight part.
Oh, it's eight part?
Yeah.
Nice.
That's what I'd care about more than the polyphony, you know, as long as I can get a
couple voices out of each.
Hell, even just one sometimes.
So what else was on our list?
Industrial music electronics.
Yes.
Bionic Lester Mark III.
Oh, yeah.
Part two.
Nothing, nothing but praise.
I fucking love it.
I got rid of...
I think we both did.
I mean, I got rid of a Polaris.
I got a Roo-3 Polaris.
All right, you win.
That's only contest, but you win.
And I don't regret it for a second.
I seriously don't miss it.
The Polaris at all.
Yeah.
Bionic Lester Mark III.
It has eight presets.
It's dual filter, multi-mode, digital filter.
I was just burping.
I'm just covering it.
Seriously, they're trying to be polite.
They're like, oh, God, he's just trying to be polite.
And you can have it either in serial, A going into B. You can have A controlling, both
A and B with B. The cutoff is an offset of that.
There's just a stereo.
And so each of the inputs have their own gain.
If you go past 12 o'clock, you start going into overdrive, which sounds fucking astounding.
I got a huge fan of that.
The resonance is super-tweaky, especially when you get up into...
I think it was you, Nick, who said last time that he added last minute the comb and all
pass.
Yeah.
Oh, fucking sounds amazing.
Sounds about band pass?
Yeah.
And you can sweep between them and that's CVable.
Oh, between the types?
Yeah.
You can sweep.
And they're not discrete, so you're kind of like morphing between them?
Yeah, it's morphing.
Yeah.
That's, I guess, I overlooked the morphing aspect of this is that you don't just sort
of go from one mode to the next discreetly.
It's a smooth, weird blend and sending that CV and just letting that sort of like go
through the different modes.
Fucking great.
And it's got a screen for enough stuff for you to save presets, load presets.
And it gives you a pretty quick overview of where you're at, a little bar for, you know,
resonance and where the frequency is at.
Oh, that's cool.
Now, does a preset, like with a preset are you pre-setting between morphs or does a preset
contain like a preset locks in exactly what the parameters are at that time.
And you can make multiple presets and then CV morph through the presets.
Yeah.
And while you're doing that, still have control over the knobs.
So as you're morphing and doing all of this stuff, you can still then keep tweaking.
And now at that point, at least my experience so far, I don't, you know, this is relatively
new.
It's chaos when you're doing that.
But I, like, I'm pretty sure like if you spend some time and really like you can dial in
something pretty musical with it.
Yeah.
You said pretty much the basics that I had jotted down for too.
I've been enjoying the shit out of it since I got it.
Oh, is it like smooth the morphing?
Yes.
Like he was saying, like it's not like you're in low pass now or now you're in band pass.
Like on the Polaris, it's, there's this weird nebulous realm between the modes where it kind
of fades in from like a low pass to a band pass to on and on.
Yeah, the modes in this order, because I jotted them down, goes from low pass to band pass
to high pass to notch to all pass and then comb as the final domain.
And honestly, like the comb filter, I know it was like a last minute edition that he
mentioned, I feel like he really broke some new ground with that.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It's amazing.
Like the dimension that it can go through, you know what I mean from like super tight,
you know, like car plus type stuff to like almost delay territory.
You know, I mean, it's pretty wide range on the comb mode and it, the comb filter has
two types of feedback too, that's got the negative and the positive.
And when you have it all the way to negative, it kind of like stops.
So you can almost use it as like a weird VCA almost.
Yeah, it's really weird.
Well, but it's just weird sort of like squashed feeling.
Like it doesn't have like a VCA, we just turn the volume down.
It feels like you've just like, like you've suffocated a flame.
Yeah.
And then you just kind of like, you just like, that was the perfect description.
Because that is how it feels.
Cause and then you just sit there and like you just are patching modulation into it.
And there's a ton of modulation.
Yeah.
Like all of the spots that you would want and including like Greg said, the preset.
This is a plus.
I love the layout of it.
When I saw it, I'm like, Oh shit, you can look at it and just like, all right, I get
kind of how it works.
He really simplified it.
Yeah.
And there's some of his earlier stuff because I know the mark two is definitely a lot different.
Um, via the bug brand crossover filter and that dropped on the same day.
And that was definitely conflicted.
I'm like, I gotta move on this.
Like if I want this filter, I gotta do it now because they're sold out.
Yeah.
And I want it for that.
But there were a few moments where I'm like, I heard this, I saw the demo.
Like, and I knew you guys were going to get them.
So I was like, all right, I'll just wait to see what they're going to say.
I'm sorry if we're, if we're, if we're making that conflict even worse.
Hey, even the, um, like the preset manager, it's a tiny screen.
You got to like hit, push the button down and then hit the other button to like do the,
the secondary menu.
It was, it's pretty intuitive.
Yeah.
You can definitely disregard the screen all together.
But it is nifty.
I've noticed like a few touches too.
Like, um, it'll light up whenever you like have the feedback all the way off on the comb
filter and then it'll kind of turn on whenever you reach that certain threshold and things
like, uh, I don't know.
It's nice.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's a nice touch.
You know, it doesn't need to be there.
It's, it's nice that it is there.
I guess at the beginning of the, before we started recording, I made the comment that
if you're looking for something clean, I can, I couldn't find a clean filter in that.
I'm not looking for that.
So it's not a big deal.
Greg, you disagreed.
Um, I mean, I feel like it gets pretty clean.
Like it has from zero to 12 is the clean territory on the gaming.
Yeah.
On the input.
Digital VCAs from zero to 12.
Uh, it's, it's kind of clean.
The minute you go past 12, a little indicator that pop on the screen and that designates
that you've entered clipping and it starts out in soft clipping and then like around,
I think like, I don't know, three, four o'clock, you start hitting hard clipping, you know,
all the way till it's maxed out.
Um, it's an instrument.
It's an interesting type of saturation.
You know what I mean?
It's definitely digital, it doesn't sound like a, like an analog amp, you know what
I mean?
It's definitely like a digital crunch, but it's not muddy either.
Like it has a lot of, it seems like a lot of headroom in there and it's still clean
even at it's like max, you know what I mean?
Position.
Yeah.
Um, it's still, you can still tell what the source material is and depending on where
you are, uh, in that saturation range and what mode you're in and what your resonance
is at, it behaves differently.
You know what I mean?
It kind of sounds like it's just breaking apart, but it's stable and there's no clicking either.
Like it even says it in the manual, like it's, it's a, the type of digital VCA where
there's like, um, oh, the zero.
Zero points.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
So yeah, it sounds good even at when it's at it's like nastiest.
Um, I know that's not clean.
I guess for me, I was talking clean in the sense of like, I went from a Polaris to this
you're in your right, the multi out on the Polaris always had some character to it.
Like there was always something, but there, there was always that clean option.
If you, if you just wanted to use a filter in an almost like scientific academic way,
a Polaris would work.
Like you do the sort of clean cuts.
And this, I was like, even when I had the gain below 12 still felt there was always
just like that little bit of teeth to it.
Mm hmm.
Um, which I'm, yeah, I don't think that's a downside, but a listener who's on the fence
about it and wants also that option, this may not be the filter for them.
I feel like almost all the harvest men, or I'm sorry, IME modules have that, that kind
of like noise to it.
You know what I mean?
Even at it's clean to state, there's always that like, like the piston, for example, always
has that like, that breath to it.
You know what I mean?
Even when you're doing something clean, the indoor had the same thing.
Yeah.
Even if you had just the VCA and you weren't using the digital, um, the Mark 1.
The Mark 1, yeah.
I'm sorry, yeah.
I was talking about the Mark 1.
If you were just using the VCA without any of the digital envelopes, it was noticeably
different than like a VCA that was trying to go for like this perfect pristine sound.
Mm hmm.
It always had just a little something to it, which again, I loved.
I thought it was great.
There's a way with the buttons to actually make it, uh, cable-less to go in, uh, series.
Oh, shit.
Wait, do you go in series?
Wait, what do you mean?
Like A through B.
Yeah, that's what, yeah, that's the, the, the, the, the, the A control, then the series
control and then the stereo control.
You had the little thing and that's what the link mode.
Yeah.
What button is?
Oh, it does stereo.
Yeah.
I guess it does that.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
That's sweet.
But I, I don't know what you're talking about.
Yeah.
I thought it would be, you know what I mean?
Oh.
I'm like doing it manually.
I don't really.
I read the manual.
Yeah, I didn't.
I did not.
Yeah.
I thought you meant there was a hidden mode that I didn't know about.
No, I just mean like-
That would be cool.
Yeah.
I'm sure there is.
Um, yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if there's something hidden in there.
I, I kind of wish, like I have no complaints about it.
I think it's great.
Um, but I do miss a couple things about my Polaris that I could do with like, like,
just the changing of the poles, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And the steepness of it.
This being a digital filter, I kind of wish he would have built that in there because
it seems like that would, that could be possible.
You know what I mean?
I know you can stack the two and go into four pole mode, but it would be nice to just be
like able to hit a button for each filter and have it go through like two, four, eight,
you know, poles, whatever.
Right, right.
Increase the steepness of it.
So it's two pole, twelve.
Yeah.
Unless you stack them.
Right.
But yeah, that, that's kind of like only minor critique of it so far.
But yeah, I'm definitely digging it.
Um, and it's just a nice change of pace.
You know what I mean?
You get kind of used to like the same type of analog filterness and then all of a sudden
you have something that's like digital and crunchy and strange.
You know, you know, yeah, and the comb filter like, like I was already sold on it at knob
con before he even introduced that, you know what I mean?
And like having one known playing with that mode, it's like, holy shit, like he could
have just showed me that mode and I probably would have bought it.
You know what I mean?
Like, I can see myself getting a lot of use out of that as like a strange manger.
What do you get?
CV over?
You get CV over the cut off.
Cut off.
Resin, well, so the CV one is always cut off.
Yeah.
And then CV two and three are assignable.
Oh, nice.
You can route them wherever you want.
Yeah.
Which is really, which is super nice.
Um, honestly, like that little filter bank module that I got, I kind of want a few more
of those for utility purposes.
Like they're cheap and you can get more surgical with it, you know, for our listeners at home.
What the fuck are you talking about?
I don't know what the fuck it is.
It's got the phase symbol on it.
Yeah, I don't, I can look it up.
I got it on reverb.
Oh, wait, that's not the animal factory one.
No, because I saw you.
Okay.
It's in between the animal factory.
But it's not.
I really was intended that to be a smoother segue.
And I was not putting on the spot.
Uh, so wait, when you ordered it, did you have a name?
Yeah.
I just don't remember what it was.
Oh, okay.
It was one of those things where like I just hopped on modular grid and I was like, I
want the small filter bank, you know, and I started looking through them and most of
them were not small at all.
Most of them were fucking gigantic.
And I was like, that kind of defeats the purpose.
I could just keep a Polaris or something.
Yeah.
So I wanted to find something that was comparable in size, but like also not real expensive or,
you know, nothing, all that crazy.
I just wanted to straight up, you know, multiple band pass filters that I could get a little
surgical on certain things with.
And I stumbled upon that thing and I was like, I don't know what this is, googled it, saw
a couple like results about getting kits for it and found one that was available on reverb.
So it's like, all right, I just jumped on it.
You know, it wasn't that expensive.
So I was like, you know, I'll take a, I'll take a leap here.
And so far I'm digging it.
It's not like the surge resonant EQ or anything, nearly that nice sounding, but it does what
it, you know, the trick.
What do you imagine yourself using it for?
Were you to keep it feedback patching?
Okay.
Most likely, which is also what I did with the resonant.
Q.
Holy shit.
You don't have the resonant EQ anymore.
Yeah.
I couldn't justify the size anymore, dude.
Like big boy.
Yeah.
For what I was doing with it, I was like, this is way too much rack space.
So I parted with it once again.
I'll probably regret it again.
You can get them.
Yeah.
I have one that I still haven't built.
Really?
Yeah, the random source kit.
Yeah.
That's smaller, but even that one's still fucking big too, you know?
It's pretty big.
It's compared to this 20 HP.
I think that one is like eight.
Eight HP.
That was like eight.
Yeah.
But I know this is kind of like completely useless to listen.
I'm like telling them what it is.
Yeah.
But we should say that there's a logo on the front that looks like a, like a not sign.
A face symbol.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Give me one second.
I can probably find it on.
[Music]
To get us back on track.
All we were discussing this, I looked up the module name.
Thank God.
We'll segue back in.
What is it?
They'll never know.
I don't know how to pronounce it.
Ant-tombra bank.
Oh.
I thought so.
That's the duty mix.
The mini elements and the mini clouds.
Oh, is it?
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
The mini marbles with the tiny mini pots, which just okay.
Yeah, which I wish I could get into.
But yeah.
Every time I look at them, I'm like, that's just way too cramped.
Like one reason why I like marbles is the, yeah.
Yeah.
And the elements too.
Like holy shit.
That would be such a mess.
Oh yeah.
It's like a great mini pots up top.
It's not interesting.
Not interesting.
A rough ride.
Nah.
I'll just do without, if that's my only option.
How long have you had this?
Uh, two days.
Oh, this is brand fucking now.
Yeah, brand.
Oh, that.
It was just impulse buy.
Nothing fancy.
I didn't even plan on talking about it really because I like, haven't really dove into it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's nothing fancy.
And the build is kind of a little bit janky on some of the pots.
But I don't know if this was a pro build directly from them or if this is somebody's
personal kit.
Mm hmm.
So yeah, quality could be a little bit better.
But I, uh, I'm just worried about it, are you?
Not really.
You know, it's doing, it's working.
You know, I've tested everything.
I've tested all the frequencies and already started doing some feedback patches through
it and things like that.
So it's doing the job.
Oh.
That's something I would recommend though.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
I feel like there needs to be a better option for something like this still with CV functionality.
I was going to ask if it doesn't have CV does it?
No, sir.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think there's like an amplified input, a flat input, a mix out, a low band out and a
high band out.
But for feedback, I could see, you know, I could see the joint there.
Now I am, I do see this between two animal factory modules.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
What's up with those was like something I ran into completely on accident.
So I was like digging through different filter banks and distortion stuff.
Cause I was like, I kind of want to build a new network of like filters and distortion.
You know, like I kind of had a sound in my head and I was trying to think of a way to
multi layer, destroy audio.
Like I used to do with software, but try to replicate that now in the modular like,
Oh, my side style.
Yeah.
Like I used to create like weird chains of like, like using multiple instances of like
homicide in conjunction with like compressors and, you know, EQs and shit, multiple multi
band EQs, you know, I mean, to just saturate specific bands, kind of like we were just
talking about with your bug brand filter.
That was like one of my tricks.
You know what I mean was the just like stack EQs and distort certain frequency ranges,
cut out everything else and then layer that up with other shit.
At the time, it sounded good to me over the years listening back on some of that, I'm
like, yeah, the software did not distort nicely.
You know what I mean?
It was kind of shitty.
But the concept is still something that I would like to achieve.
So I'd like to try to figure out how to do it with hardware.
So I was just looking into new distortion modules and things that kind of slipped under my radar.
And I saw a picture of one of the animal factory modules and it just caught my eye.
Like the design of it.
I was like, that's interesting.
I've never seen that before.
I have no idea what that is.
So I started like reverse engineering at the figure out, you know, who made it eventually
I was able to match the artwork with a pedal.
And I was like, okay, so then I found the website for animal factory amplifiers.
I was like, okay, these guys have been making, well, it's a guy, I should say, he's been making
pedals for a few years now, recently got into making modules back like last year, 2018,
I think was his first modular run.
And he's slowly converting all of his pedals to modules, but he didn't want it to just
be a port.
He wanted to bring it to modular, but also make sure that like all the sound was intact
and also offer CV over everything that didn't exist in the pedal format.
And I was like, okay, I can get behind that.
And so I just wanted to get some more like info on who he is, you know, who the company
was.
And I found a Schneider's Layton workshop demo video on YouTube where he's just like demoing
a few of his pedals and talking about him in length for like an hour and talking about
how his influences are all from like industrial background.
He listened to coil, throw out in gristle, new bot and all this stuff.
And he was saying like back when they first got internet, he's based in India.
I don't remember if I said that or not, but yeah, he did not.
Yeah, he's based in India and he was saying like when he was young and like all of his
friends had just gotten the internet and were like learning how to download porn and all
this, he was busy finding ways to download distortion circuits.
And like schematics, like that was his jam.
So that's what he's been doing for like the last few years.
And now like he's going the modular route and I was like, I could definitely support
this dude.
Like, yeah, you know, he seems to be on the level of a very similar mindset, you know,
like where I like to take my shit, you know, musically.
And so so far I got two modules of his, the coma delay and the pit viper distortion.
So both of these I just got very recently, haven't had a chance to dive into them too
much.
But like the pit viper, it kind of reminds me of like an opto dist on steroids.
Okay.
Like to the different lot of different tones.
I think there's like a, I don't know for certain if it's a LED based, I think it is.
It sounds like it is.
And there's definitely some things lighting up inside the panel when I look.
So I'm pretty sure it's like opto based.
But yeah, there's just so many different ways like that he has in there to get different
tones and different like just saturation levels.
You can almost get lost in it.
You know what I mean?
Like every knob you turn or knob you hit can interact with something else in a different
way.
You know what I mean?
So a lot of, a lot of versatility to it, which is what I'm all about when it comes to
distortion.
I don't like one trick ponies.
That's why I don't have an opto dist anymore.
You know what I mean?
It's like, okay, this sounds good, but it's to one flavor.
It is.
You know what I mean?
So the pit viper is one of his oldest designs.
The stuff that he's built since then has like a lot more range and weird ways that it
can just shred audio.
The one that I just pre-ordered, it's called the God Eater.
And it's more made for like, basey tones, like for bass guitar, bass synths.
Yeah.
And it's got some weird low end to it.
It's supposed to be able to like mangle the shit out of stuff, but retain low frequency.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And I was like, hell yeah.
So that is on pre-order now.
That should ship out mid December, he said.
So I'm very excited to get that one.
Is that based on a pedal that already exists?
Yeah.
Okay.
But now it'll have all the CV.
But you've been able to like hear demos of the pedal to get an idea of what it does.
Yeah, that was one of the things that he demoed in the workshop demo that I watched.
Going back and forth with him too, he was telling me some of this stuff.
I kind of got into some email communications with him.
When I placed the order for the coma delay, he kind of replied back, because how did someone
find out about a little, you know, pedal shop all the way over here in India?
And I was like, it's been a strange journey, dude, to how I've ended up finding out, you
know, who you are.
I said, I'd like to order pretty much everything that you have available.
At this point, so that's on pre-order.
The other one, he released it last year, like with the pit viper, but he's decided he wants
to add more functionality to it and improve it.
So he's taken like the original version is now out of stock.
Well, he kind of makes these tweaks.
He hasn't given me an ETA on one.
That'll be complete.
But once it is, I'm likely going to order that as well right off the bat.
Did he say what those new tweaks are going to be?
I can't remember off the top of my head, but he said he just wanted to improve it.
So I'm into that.
You know, the more, I guess, options he puts into it and different flavors, I'm, you know,
the happier I'll be for sure.
But yeah, I haven't found any other distortions like that in Europe so far that have seemed
so like geared towards noise and industrial.
You know, a lot of them just seemed like your standard types of distortion or one flavor
of it.
It's really something you can explore.
I like the fact that he seems to be making circuits that are meant to be deep-dived.
You know?
Yeah.
Do you see there is a new tool, scorn kit that's coming out next year and it's like
a dual distortion module.
They have a preview on thonk and it was just put on there in like the past two days or
something like that.
But looked intriguing.
It's not a good that's posted.
I did not.
Yeah, you might want to check it out, but I will.
Yeah.
Like, like, because I'm still trying to build out like my network, you know what I mean?
And the animal factor stuff is definitely going to be a key player in that.
But it's probably not going to stop there either.
Do you have to, like, get these directly from him?
Is there any distro for this stuff?
Perfect.
Circuit carries some of the pedals and a couple of the two modules that are out right
now, but they're all out of stock.
It all says like arriving soon.
Um, so I think they say that for a lot of stuff.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's the only place stateside that I've found so far that carries their
stuff.
So I just ordered directly from him and it arrived pretty quickly.
It was like within three days via FedEx.
I was, yeah, I was real surprised.
I was like, Holy shit.
That got here already.
I was expecting it to take like weeks, you know, like, like when I ordered something from
like Erica sense or whatever it takes, usually at least a week, you know, to travel across
seas.
Yeah.
Bug brands always a week at best because it's UK and customs.
But you saw the packaging too, like the boxes.
Yeah, it's beautiful.
Yeah.
They're like solid black, nice logo on the front.
They're magnetically sealed.
Yeah, little like, you know, snapshot when you close it.
I was like, that is a nice touch, you know.
So like everything about them so far just kind of like screams, you know, my name, it's
got my attention.
Like everything from like his aesthetics to his philosophies to the sound of the motto
so far.
I'm like, it's a shame he's all the way in India.
You know, he's the type of dude I feel like I could just like chill in a coffee shop with
all day and just shoot the shit and talk about fucking distortion with, you know.
Right.
Did the pit viper come with an actual pit viper?
Yeah, it slipped out.
It's roaming around here somewhere.
Sure.
Well, deadly ass.
It's very dangerous.
I've been making friends with my cat.
I feel like we would be not doing our jobs as, you know, informers of the public.
Yeah.
As important synthesizer journalists in the, if we did not mention, baringer.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Like, I think we had on the list here to talk about a couple of the new things.
It might almost be easier at this point to release what they're not cloning.
Yeah.
Because the list is getting insane and it's like impossible to keep track of the wasp
videos dropped today or yesterday.
Yeah.
The drops of videos of the wasp, I was still kind of reeling from the TD three and the bro
one.
Yeah.
Announcements.
Like when I saw the wasp, I was like, like, oh, is this, is this a joke?
Because it almost seemed like it was self referential.
Like we're just fucking cloning everything.
Yeah.
And it was like, nothing safe.
You can't save.
You're a hydro wife.
$150 TD three though.
Yeah.
It's kind of ridiculous for a full analog thing.
And they even like clone the DS one and put it in there too.
Just like poke the barrel a little bit more.
Yeah.
It didn't sound not like a 303.
You know what I mean?
It was kind of like, okay, that's, that's convincing.
It's not identical.
Yeah.
But for 150 bucks, who fucking cares?
It's not going to be like a Dinsync RE 303, which is like pretty meticulously done.
But you know, it's going to be that sound basically.
It's not a one to one clone.
It's not a blown out version like an Avalon.
It's your cheapo $150.
I want to make close enough acid.
You know what I mean?
That's, that's what pisses me off about it in a way is like, why not clone the fucking
devil fish?
Yeah.
You know, if you're going to clone it, you've got ultimate flexibility at the point CV and
all the mods and like the filter attack and like all that shit.
Just do it.
And like 150 bucks.
Okay.
That's amazing and astounding.
Dude, if you added all of the shit and it was 250, that would still be insane.
Yeah.
Like that would be like a no brainer purchase with all of that shit in it.
The two that I like the least are the bro one and the mo clone just because like maybe
Dave Smith was going to put out his own pro one clone.
Yeah.
The rolling shit like fuck them.
They're doing like they're often MC 707 land and making like super tiny versions.
You can make like a normal 808 and the people I know that have that are like, yeah, it's
fucking great.
Like they're cool features on it.
Like I'm down.
That's awesome.
It's affordable.
Like they did what Roland should have done in a lot of ways.
And the Wasp is another example of that.
Like people have been cloning the filter on it for a while now.
Like that's not been hard to find or even you know, people have been doing that for
a but they actually have the full functioning as it was wasp clone.
You're not taking food out of anyone's mouth at this point.
Yeah.
Dopford did it with the filters.
You know, and other people have cloned other wasp shit.
There's the Jasper DIY.
Yeah.
So that's the one that's like a.
I've been seeing a lot of those kids popping up.
Oh yeah.
Everyone's like doing a dump.
But no, I think like if you're going to do this dig deep.
What was the monopole?
The other one like to me that's very exciting because that has been I use the software, the
core legacy software one and I've you I usually use the shit out of it.
Filter rules.
But the actual hardware has just been that is not so expensive.
It's so expensive and it's it's probably a pain to ask to maintain.
But the sound of it's amazing.
They can pull that one off.
Fuck.
I ain't gonna lie man.
I was actually tempted the most by the burrow one.
And it was like the one that was kind of making me feel the most guilty too.
Because the same thing I was like man like, you know, what did Dave Smith put out, you
know, his own, you know, but then I remember like he kind of did.
You know, he hit the pro two exists and things like that and like he's not going to do it.
Right.
He's not going to do a true like retro, you know, flashback version.
Yeah, exactly.
He's doing bigger, better things.
So like if Beringer is picking up that ball and running with it and so be it.
And it sounded good, you know, like I really wanted it to not like I was listening to
the demos.
I was like, oh yeah, please sound like shit because they're like one on one clone does
not sound like a one on one to me.
You know what I mean?
I got had no interest in buying it once I heard that the burrow one I listened to and
I was like, oh fuck.
It was like that kind of nails it, you know what I mean?
And it's cheap.
And it's you can slap it in your Euro rack.
I was like, fuck, this is tempting.
Get that shit for like 250 bucks.
Yeah.
So who's it going to be?
One of us has to do this.
One of us is going to get one of these Beringer since who's going to do it.
I mean, I don't know.
It's going to be you, Craig.
It's just late.
Let's just accept.
I don't have the rack space right now.
It's something like kind of consolidating there.
I mean, I could probably put it over there.
Um, I don't know, man.
Like I kind of want it, but at the same time, I'm like, do you like the MS 20 shit that they
did?
Or do you think that doesn't sound right?
I have two different opinions on that.
I think it sounds close enough, but it's kind of like you were saying, like, why didn't
they call them the double fish?
I feel the same way about the MS 20.
I'm like, why didn't they do the version that is like more blown out with some of the
mods, you know what I mean?
All that like the better version, you know what I mean?
Like it's not like they even have to be innovative.
Like clearly, clearly Beringer is not trying to innovate here.
They're not pushing any envelope.
They're not adding anything new to these things really.
They're just taking pre-existing things and packaging them for a modern market.
But like if you're just going to do that, won't you clone the versions that like have
already been considered like the successors to the originals?
You know what I mean?
Like I don't know.
That's one thing I like about the RD 808 is for the clap circuit.
They have the ability to toy and turn the white noise off, which my, my 808 only does
when you turn it on.
And for a few minutes, it fucks up in the circuit.
It doesn't connect, but it's the greatest clap sound ever.
And then when you turn the reverb on or the white noise quote unquote reverb, it's like
man, okay.
Could you knob for it?
Could you just actually modify yours to starve that?
I just want to be kind of sacrilegious.
It would be great.
Like I would love it if it turned out all the PCBs in the baron just stuff had like patch
points.
Yeah.
Well, we built this so you can hack it then I'd be like, you're fucking, yeah, that would
be awesome.
Some people were saying that there is space in some of these like someone mentioned that
the baron there was like some space for some mods and but do they actually have the same
with the 303 the breakout buses like on some of those, like those PCBs that are like designed
to be hacked.
They'll have like this pain has a breakout and then you can actually just, you know,
redo them as you want.
Right.
If they went that far ahead where you had a through hole to actually, you know, something
to say over.
Yeah.
Something that symbols like the MS 20.
Exactly.
My hope is that these clones will drive down the prices on some of the originals.
Right.
And I could get myself an MS 20 M like the real one and, you know, with the mods and everything.
I'm going to throw something out there though.
Something that old shit is getting real hard to maintain.
Yeah.
I kind of want new new shit.
But then then you're putting a lot of trust into baron shoes quality control.
No, that's a thing.
No real.
Which is worse.
Right.
Barringer quality control or a 40 year old.
Either way, you're probably going to get a year's worth of fun either way.
I'm going to have to open this up at some point and fix it.
I'm right on the edge of 40 and I'm getting shitty.
That's true, man.
Some of the shit's like older than us.
If not as old.
Yeah.
It's crazy to think about.
Maybe you guys.
So we covered all the new shit.
Crossover, the bionic cluster, animal factory, voltage lab, general shit.
We had barringer, soma.
Oh, the superlative.
If that's how you say it.
Superlative.
Thank you.
All right.
So how's that pronounced?
Superlative.
Why are you doing your head like that?
I'm trying to drill it into my brain.
Superlative.
What does that mean to?
It's like a glowing adjective.
Yeah, like best.
Yeah, yeah.
Instead of better.
What a bunch of pretentious fucks.
Yeah.
That's why I was using my lofty academic voice for that.
Sperlative.
That's kind of appropriate then because it's kind of where I was going to go with this
topic is like you guys know my loves for the one on one.
Yeah.
Superlative instruments have released a SB01.
All black modernized SH101 clone.
Then as fuck.
Sleeque.
Amazing looking.
It looks like my dream 101.
But I didn't back the Kickstarter because I have zero fucking faith in these guys.
Yeah.
There's nothing on their entire campaign that has given me like any confidence in them.
This is their first project.
They've done nothing else.
Yeah.
Leading up to this.
So I wanted to do some research into them.
You know what I mean?
I was like okay.
There was videos of them at different conventions.
Sure.
Or them.
It might just be that guy.
Right.
He's talked.
He's like you like he exists.
This is not entirely vaporware.
Well, that's the thing.
Like or is it?
It kind of feels like.
Like they've met their goal.
Like they met it within the first week.
They've you know exceeded it now by far.
I think today's the last day as of this recording for their Kickstarter campaign.
But like he's he was talking at certain conventions and things like that.
And he never really gave any insight into like them as a company or why they're even
doing this.
You know what I mean?
This is bringing to the table.
It just kind of felt like a baronger junior to me.
Like they're just cloning an instrument.
You know what I mean?
Putting it in a sleeker case.
So I did some digging and I found this article that the dude behind it did with like some
financial people and was like saying basically like he just wants to be a startup guy.
And he figured that vintage synthesizers would be a niche that he could corner.
Like this dude is just like totally faking it.
Yeah.
I saw a gap in the market.
Exactly.
And like reading the article I was like okay that is kind of what I had suspected from
the start.
And he's saying he was like struggling to find investors in this vintage synthesizer concept
that he was putting out there.
So he eventually took it to Kickstarter and made some fancy looking videos.
Like I even showed it to Cyrus.
You know, and Cyrus is all about like marketing and aesthetic.
Yeah.
And he got back to me within minutes.
He was like these guys are really good at making a marketing video.
I was like right.
He was like but that's like all it looks like.
I said right.
He's like yeah I don't know if I trust that.
I said that was my vibe.
I said that's why I sent this to you.
And I didn't even say anything.
I didn't put it in that context.
I just wanted to see his response.
And he came back at me and was like okay I'm glad to know that I'm not like off base here
and thinking that.
It's like 900 bucks right.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Which is not cheap.
Not cheap but a good put.
You're going to pay a lot more for a real 101.
Sure.
Well a good a bit.
For a working one.
Yeah.
And it doesn't really offer anything new over the classic except that it has an on board
battery.
You don't need to plug it in.
And that's another issue.
You know what I mean?
Like irreplaceable batteries.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I thought there was something USB on it too.
That's the power.
Oh it's just power.
It's not like maybe.
Some people do that now.
That deluge.
It might be able to do some stuff through USB.
I just know that that's its source of power.
You know it's been a minute since I looked at the campaign.
It was just something that I wanted to bring up because like within a week he had over 400k.
Holy shit.
I think it was 400.
It was even 40 or 400.
Right.
That's a big number.
For a company.
We may have talked about this in the past with like Kickstarter but like to give someone
who has you know no history.
No one's really that familiar with even who the dude is.
Right.
Like he hasn't like you need to deliver on something to show that you know how to manufacture
something on any kind of scale.
He could have literally bought 101 gutted it, made a case.
Put the hardware in there and said cool I got this prototype and actually it's just
knowing that when he gets the 400k's like I'll figure it out.
I didn't even trust the demo videos.
Like there wasn't any video that I saw at the time when I looked at it where it wasn't
going through an effects pedal.
Most of the time it was going through a strum and pedal.
The El Capistan.
Oh okay.
Which has a very vintage sound anyways.
So you could be running any shit oscillator through it.
I mean like listen to that vintage sound.
You know what I mean.
That could just be nothing but an iPhone.
Yeah.
Under that hood and it's just a recording.
It just seemed like it almost seemed like fake.
You know all the way through like maybe that concept model is actually functioning maybe
it's not who the fuck knows.
There's not enough info or videos or any track record of these guys.
You know.
So I found the risks.
Oh yeah.
What does he say about the risks?
Like we've been developing the SBO1 over the last two years through six major prototypes
with a commitment to quality and reliability.
Blah blah blah.
We are confident our synthesizer can be manufactured to the high standards and begin shipping
to our backers early next summer.
Pillow Talk.
It says built the scale.
Ready to go.
That's it.
Yeah.
There's something there's nothing in here that gives me the warm and fuzzies like I don't
know.
There's a lot of people are still really burned about the fluxes.
Yeah.
I was just going to bring it up because I was one of those people you had one at one point.
That's what I'll say for whatever with the voltage I like they shipped and it works.
Yeah.
You know there's like a big difference there and the MIDI in on the fluxes one still doesn't
do MIDI in recording.
It just doesn't like there are huge gaps on it.
I didn't back the Pittsburgh modular thing but if they did put something out there that
was appealing to me and I was like interested in it.
At no point would I ever think oh I wonder if they're going to get it done.
Right.
You know if they're going to get it done.
Yeah.
It's a superlative thing.
It's like it doesn't like compare their Kickstarter to like Paul's.
You know what I mean?
Paul has a track record.
He explains everything like that is something even if I didn't even if I wasn't familiar
with like synthesis technology as like a company looking at his Kickstarter like it
would give me confidence to back that if it was something that I wanted like even if
this goes off smoothly like the whole Kickstarter thing and everyone gets their product.
What about quality control?
You know what I mean?
Like who knows if this thing will actually be worth eight hundred some dollars or if it's
going to be.
The Beringer level.
Is it like is it a hundred and fifty dollars in the last more than a couple years.
Maybe it will.
I don't know manufacturing processes are different now.
It's cheaper.
They've got the economies of scale for sure.
My Midas mixer that they help produce is fucking awesome.
Mm hmm.
So something is to be said for that cheap.
I think they've crossed the line into being suspiciously cheap.
And they're still making profit of one hundred fifty bucks three oh three like with a software
editor front end like.
Yeah, I mean it's I mean now you're talking about like I don't know if this is a fair
comparison but like that's the type of like cost and expected quality you associate with
like Ikea.
Exactly.
I actually don't even trust their tables that much.
I got like an Ikea table.
Actually, I think it's this one.
Yeah.
You can hear how hollow and shitty these are through the microphone just by tapping on it.
I told you like I cut one of these.
Mm hmm.
Because it was cardboard inside.
It's hollow.
It is hollow.
It's corrugated like corrugated like weird angular cardboard and it's it's sturdy like
it gives it gives a very strong simulation of wood or wood like substance.
But when I cut it I think I dramatically reduced its um what's it called strength.
Yeah.
And I'm load bearing.
It's load bearing.
It is definitely going to collapse.
It's like this Instagram videos where they cut like a chair apart and put like a piece
of corn to patch it and they paint over it and sand it.
It's like six or toilet with ramen.
Ramen, except.
Probably enough.
I heard that's what's inside the SBO 101.
Yeah.
The circuits are just fused together with ramen.
(intense music)
(crowd cheering)